So our weather app will have a lot of different screens.
You can see here we have the entry point screen, we have the search screen and we have favorites we
have about selig's and so forth.
So when you look at this, this is very overwhelming because we have so many things, so many moving
parts.
As you see now we are going to divide and conquer here.
We're going to start small and build up as we continue to build this application.
So let's start small.
So how is this navigation going to work?
Because we need to go from one screen to the next and so forth.
So we're going to start small.
We are going to put together a navigation system that will allow us to navigate between screens.
The first screen that user will see, it's going to be a splash screen.
So the screen is going to be a very quick to show and quick to disappear screen.
So instantly shows does a little bit of animation.
And then it takes us to the main screen where users can see all of the information about a particular
city.
And it's.
Weather and so forth.
So this is the basic structure now because we have many other screens in which we'll take care of it
later.
We will have to create will have to create a broader structure that will allow us to add all of these
other screens later when we need to.
Let's go ahead and put together a navigation structure first, that it's easier for us later to add
other other screens onto the navigation.
Let's go ahead and do that.
Instead of an navigation here, we're going to create an application structure.
Well, we need two things.
One is going to create an enum class, which will list all of the possible screens that we want to add
into our app project.
OK, let's go ahead and do it so we can see.
So I'm going to create a new Kotlin class.
And this is going to be just enum when you call this.
Weather screens like this.
I can see its income, which means we can add a list of whatever we want, and I'm going to do that.
So the first one is going to be a splash screen.
And the second one, I'm going to have a main screen or such and about screen favorite screens, and
I'm going to use a settings screen as well.
Now is it necessary to do this way?
Not really, but it's always nice to separate the concerns to have one place that is dedicated for all
of the enumerated screens and so forth, as you will see later.
It's a way better to do this as opposed to having to add all of these routes, all of these routes in
our navigations when we are putting everything together.
OK, so this is really great because then if our app changes our managers, whoever is managing our
project, they decided that we need to add a different screen is much easier to come here in one place
and add that screen, etc..
OK, OK.
So next, I'm going to create the actual another class here, which is going to be our weather navigation.
So a class called this weather navigation.
All right.
So what is this weather navigation going to do?
Well, first of all, this weather navigation is going to be the class that will have the nav controller,
which is going to be a class that comes with compose jetpack compose that will control has the capability
of controlling the navigation to any screen that we may have.
So it's going to be a structure that we can create with nav controller, the control that allows us
to say, OK, now we're a screen a when we click, we want to navigate to screen B and so forth.
OK, so the first thing we're going to do here, I'm going to say Wow, sat nav controller and it's
going to be enough controller Typekit like this.
We're actually going to say he's equal to remember now we're having a problem here because this if you
have, I was going to say, Well, this has to be inside of a composable.
That's true.
That's why I'm going to change this to just a function to say that this is indeed composable.
Actually, that's not everything that we must do.
We must also say composable like this.
OK, now it all works if you have a overegging seat, says creates an IV host controller that handles
the adding of Decompose Navigator.
Well, next, what do we need to do?
We have to control it, but we have to have that.
Navajos, Navajos, as the name implies, to be the host of all of our composable in this case.
All of our screens means users can go to.
So I'm going to say nav hosts.
As such, we need that nav controller space on a controller, right?
Because it will need to know how to do things like go to or navigate to X composable or screen.
Now we're going to have some problems right away because if you have over time, hosts is going to say,
Well, I need some more information, one of which is I want a starting point, a star destination.
So I'm going to actually go ahead and say, start destination like this, because then I've hosted needs
a starting point.
Where do we start in this whole navigation realm, right?
What is the first screen I'm going to show to the user?
Well, in this case, I'm going to say whether I'm going to go use the weather screens, right.
He needs the route.
In this case, I want the search, actually is the splash screen not name.
Notice that we haven't created the actual screen, but we're just adding here this is going to be the
route was, say, the address to where to get that splash screen.
Once we done that, then if you see that we now have, let's put this in line.
You can see now we can create that actual nav graph builder.
So now we can create the actual screens composable that needs to be attached in our nav host.
Remember these nav host?
Think of a place where are we going to put all of these screens because now will know how to host that
navigation?
That's why the naming nav host navigation host it hosts all of the navigation.
We must pass the controller nav controller, so we need to know how to navigate nav control and knows
how to do that.
And we have to pass a starting point right at the start destination.
We start at splash screen and then inside.
Oh, now in this lambda, this is where we construct our navigation right in the form of composable.
The first one, I'm going to say composable, right?
And you can see if you say composable, says Route one pass to route.
Where is this composable?
That we want to go to.
Right then I'm going to say weather again, actually weather screens when a splash screen name, just
like what we did here.
So here we are saying the start, this is going to be this rout, but now we're going to create an actual
composable that needs to be shown when we hit, they start this nation.
OK, and then, of course, another lambda here it is composable.
This is where then I'm going to create the actual composable, the actual screen.
So when say, whether we haven't created this splash screen like that and I'm going to pass it and have
controller because we will need that later?
OK.
Right.
So they will go.
So we don't have that.
We can create that rule inside.
I'm going to combine and create a new in class.
It's going to be a file is going to be composable and I'm going to pasting the name that I just created,
whether splash screen actually has to be splash and splash like that.
And I'm going to create a composable.
Yes, it is indeed a composable such a fun and I'm going to use the same name.
That's fine.
And then here I'm going to pass enough controller.
Like that, that's the type that's needed in my.
So for now, I'm just going to port.
I had a text.
A very sad text, it says.
Splash screen like this?
Let's go back to the controller like that, everything should be good.
Right when I say splash like this, splash with an Asian.
And we have to import locally whether a splash screen.
Let's type again, weather splash screen.
That's because I didn't change there as well.
OK.
Let's say whether splash screen like this.
Very good.
OK, so just quick recap here what we've done.
We created this weather navigation composable.
This is going to host all of the navigation that we need to do in our app.
And notice that I created this inam here just for simplicity, where I list out all of the possible
screens we're going to need.
First one is going to be a splash screen, which, as you see, we've just use that.
So we created this weather navigation.
We have to have enough controller, which controls the whole navigation allows us to say, OK, let's
go navigate to X screen, right?
And all of that is being driven instead of a nav host.
It's our nav host.
We have to pass that nav controller because it needs that control to know how to navigate to X screen,
and we have to pass a starting destination.
Where do we start in this in this navigation?
Well, we start at splash screen, but that's not everything.
Then inside we create the actual graph.
This is inside of our nav host because our nav host hosts all of navigation.
What are these navigation?
Well, these are composable just screens.
So we see composable.
We pass the route.
In this case throughout.
It's going to be weather screen.
Splash that name.
OK.
This is the best way to do it.
And then we construct and then we pass the actual screen and composable where we can show.
In this case, we just have a text splash screen.
All right.
That's all we doing.
And this is wonderful, that means every time we want to add a new screen, we can go to our weather
screen.
We add that screen here, right just as an inch.
And then our weather navigation, you can create the same thing and that composable can copy that and
paste it all here.
Change the route here instead of splash screen could be something else, as you will see, and then
create the actual composable, which in this case, we created a splash screen like this obviously will
create something new to where users can go to.
All right, I'm going to get rid of this.
And that's the structure that we need to put together.